That
Gordy became a very big five percenter in
Washington. He became a
representative. Matter of fact, he became a
representative of an air transport association.
and he became a representer of some grain combines
and he became a big five percenter. He made Drew
Pearson's column several times. Really? Yes.
Somebody tripped, tipped Drew Pearson off as to
what happened to Gordon Moore in the military and
told him that I could tell him the story. Drew
Pearson called me a couple of times And a couple of
his aides called me a couple of times, trying to get
me to tell them the story of George Gordon Moore.
And Moore calls himself, I don't know if, I haven't
heard of the guy in three or four years now, but
Moore calls himself retired Colonel George
Gordon Moore. He uses the full colonel rank and
says he's retired. Well, to get back, the first
time I was nominated,
to be a general officer. My name was removed at the
White House when Eisenhower was the president. So
your name got all the way up to the White House. It
got all the way up to the White House. In other
words, the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Oh, hell yes. I
got all the way out of the Department of the Army and
the Secretary of Defense. At the White House, it's
just kind of a rubber stamp before it goes to
confirmation. Sure. I was told in a very secret
channel that my name was removed in the White
House. And then later when I was nominated and it
went on through, then I was nominated twice for my
second star and I was told by some very good
authority the second time when I was in my last
command there in Philadelphia that some friends
of General Eisenhower had seen to it that my name
was removed at the White House. Yeah. That's a
fact. Even though LBJ was in. Even though LBJ was
in, yeah. And I had a couple of guys that went to LBJ
about it, and I knew President Johnson, but it was
quite a political ploy. The chief of staff at that
time was a guy named Johnson. And he wasn't a good
friend of mine, but the promotion board had
recommended it and I'd been filling a two-star
billet in that command for three years. And so, but
my name didn't get through, didn't get up to the
Senate. And even Senator Goldwater, was all teed
off about it. He was, he told me, I saw him three or
four years after that. As a matter of fact, I saw him
when I was working for Scott. And he said, he said,
your second star really, really was kicked around
in circles in Washington. But he said, I admire
what you did. So this is about the most noteworthy
thing about my career. Isn't it a shame when
someone's honest? But I'm proud to have done it
because I believe that the least that an
individual can do is to is to serve with dignity and
to serve with honesty.
And any son of a bitch that achieves his purpose by
utter falsification and deliberate utter
falsification, because he had to falsify a
transcript and take a photo of it. He made a fake
transcript and then photostatted it. the
university guys admitted that it was the farm that
the university used for their transcripts. Says
he must have gotten the farm from somebody in the
registrar's office and just typed in all these,
and most of the courses that he typed in were
correct courses. So he got a catalog of the
university. Yeah, he got a catalog and gave
himself enough course credit to graduate. So I got
a big charge out of it, and I haven't told this story
in this detail in a long, long time. But it was a big
thing, and it was a big thing to me at the time. But
it's been a little thing, because since I retired,
you know, the fortune has been real good to me.
Well, if there were... You were just in charge of
the military personnel for the quartermaster.
And
you found that many discrepancies. You found 89
discrepancies out of 9,000. How many
discrepancies did the entire army find? Did they
carry out their own investigations? Did the
military? No, they didn't. Or the Navy or Air
Force? Not completely, no. I would say there are
probably several thousand. officers, most of
them probably retired by now, but several
thousand officers served under false
conditions. I, I'm sorry to say that, but it's
goddamn true. Oh, why didn't, why didn't the rest
of the army take the cue from what you were finding?
I think it, uh, the theory was why rock the boat, you
know? Yeah, why rock the boat? Everything's going
along smooth, but it always, it irks me to see
people get advantage over people that do right,
and people get advantage over them by doing wrong.
Because there was so damn many, and I know people I
served with during the war, that just wanted to be
in the regular service, but were not accepted in
the integration, and yet there was some sum of
bitches that were crooks, that got it, and these
good people didn't have the opportunity to serve.
And this is what bothered me. So I
really,
but I've done very, very well since I left the
service. I walked out of my office in
Philadelphia, my command in South Philly, Drove
out to the airport to Scott's corporate
headquarters and was a corporate vice president.
Had about twice the salary that I was making then as
a general officer and served there for three years
and could have stayed on until I retired. But this
opportunity opened up down here and I came back
down here and made an accommodation to take over
this business. Well, so it's been very rewarding.
I was wondering about something else that's in a
sense similar to this, and it was also going on in
Washington around 1950, and that is McCarthyism.
Yeah. And in what way did McCarthyism affect the
Army, as far as you're concerned? Did it have any
impact on you as chief of personnel for the
quartermaster? I don't believe that it did.
McCarthyism, I think, there's a... McCarthyism
exists today. It's a malady. And the use of the word
following the name of the man that so personified
those traits and those ethics. I don't think that
McCarthyism per se really had a big impact on the
army. I think that military people have got to
function in a fishbowl and have got to function
with integrity and honesty because ultimately
the people in the country have their ultimate
faith in what the military can do for them. The
military are supposed to be the final
protectorate of the way of life and the
perpetuation of the country. And if the people in
the country can't have respect for the military,
why, I think we're in a bad way. And I think that one
way that we can ensure that they have respect for
the military, is for the military people to serve
honorably and to carry on their life and their
decorum in an honorable way. Well, what about the
fact that Senator McCarthy charged that there was
a Red General in the Army, a Brigadier General? I
think he was a supply officer, as a matter of fact.
Yeah, I don't know. And then Secretary of Army
Stevens had to go to Congress, which was one of the
downfalls of McCarthy and all the hearings. Yeah,
this guy, this officer was supposed to have been at
Fort Monmouth, I think. Signal Corps, yeah. I had
met the guy, I forget the name. I do too. I forget it,
but I had met him. Bob Stevens, the Secretary of the
Army that you alluded to there, I know him very
well. Robert T. Stevens, who had been the
Secretary, because he was the titular head of J.P.
Stevens and Company, a big textile, and I got to
know him very well and in my command.
Bob Stevens was a hell of a fine guy. I think one of
the most noteworthy
speeches ranks as far as I'm concerned alongside
Lincoln's Gettysburg Address was during the
McCarthy hearings when the army lawyer made that
statement to McCarthy when McCarthy chastised
this young lawyer that worked for Welch and Welch
looked at him and said Mr. McCarthy you and your
Venom have done a great damage to a fine young man.
And is there no compassion in your soul at all? That
was really a very dramatic speech that Welch made.
So that was really a big thing in our family and in my
circle of friends in the military. Every once in a
while, I'll see somebody and they'll They'll want
to know about Gordon Moore. But I looked on it very
philosophically.
It didn't bother me at all. In what year were you
sent to the Far East? 54. Okay, so in 1954. Oh,
there's another thing I wanted to ask you before we
move on to that. And that is, as Chief of the
Military Personnel for Quartermaster, you must
have had some major problems during Korea. Yes, it
was. What were they? Calling people to active duty
was a major problem. And the compassionate,
nearly everybody had a compassionate problem of
they didn't want to come to duty. And if they did
want, they would want three months or two months or
six months so they could get their affairs in
order. And then assigning people to units that
were going to Korea was a compassionate, a lot of
compassionate thing. We had a lot of requests for
compassionate deferment and compassionate
delay of recall and this sort of thing.
It was a real trying time. It was even, of course I
wasn't in, had no personnel actions during
Vietnam.
They were all logistic as far as Vietnam was
concerned. I was over there a couple of times. I've
been thinking a lot about Vietnam recently,
particularly since the CBS report. the other day,
or a couple of months ago, where they chastised
Westmoreland. And while I wouldn't stand up in
front of a big audience and make a speech and say
that, there's a hell of a lot of truth in what the CBS
had to report. Oh, we're going to talk about
Vietnam. We'll talk about Vietnam, and we're
going to talk about your role, and I want your ideas
on it, too. But let's say that until we get out
there. OK. Why don't we because that's important.
You said that 69 were resigned right on the spot in
that Eisen, not Eisenhower, in that Moore affair.
And what happened to the rest of that? Well, like I
said, those 69 resigned. And 12, we put a memo for
record in their file absolving them and saying
that the case is closed. and the others went before
board just like Garnie Moore and like he, they were
removed from the service without honor and
without dishonor. So there wasn't a single one
that survived? Not a single one survived, not a
single one. And in other words, you were right in
all the acquisitions? We were, we were absolutely
right in all of them and minor discrepancies,
they're probably the personnel people that
screened the files under the ground rules we laid
down said there were probably 500 minor
discrepancies where someone had claimed 65 hours
of credit when the actual university or college
said well they only had 59 hours or 62 hours or
something like that. where they said they'd gone
to school for five semesters and maybe they'd only
gone four semesters. And we thought they were
minor discrepancies. And all of them, where there
was a discrepancy, over the actual record and what
the FBI background report had shown, we put a
statement in their file saying the discrepancy
had been accepted and recognized and absolved and
the case was closed so that there wouldn't be any
continuing going into these things in the future.
Today on where we left off last time, and that was in
Japan. Today is the 17th of August, 1982. This is
our second interview with General Kinderdine.
And you were the commander of the United States
Petroleum Facilities in the Far East, and you were
stationed in Japan. Yeah, with headquarters in
Yokohama on Tokyo Bay. And this was a series of
petroleum storage and distribution facilities
throughout the Japanese islands, including
Hokkaido and Honshu and Kyushu. Honshu being the
main island where Tokyo and Yokohama and so forth
are located, and Hokkaido, the most northern
island, included in that was one pipeline that was
laid from a little port city of Hatchanoi about 35
miles up the beach to an air base and we operated
that pipeline. In addition, the storage
facilities that the U.S. built in Okinawa were
under our technical supervision and some
facilities in Korea likewise were. All of our
facilities in Japan were former patrolling
facilities that the Japanese government had
built in preparation for World War II. They were
all underground storage tanks, concrete
underground storage tanks. And the Japanese had
built some 30 million barrels of underground
storage. And when the war was over, hardly any of it
was even slightly damaged by the extensive
bombing because it was hardened. They were
hardened sites and underground. And therefore we
had a beautiful set of terminals and facilities to
move into to store the Navy special fuel oil for the
fleet and diesel for the fleet and the military and
aviation gasoline and jet fuel and motor fuel.
which we brought directly from the Middle East.
Oh, that's what I was going to ask you. Was this
American oil? 90% of it came directly to us by
tanker from the Middle East, from Rastanura and
ports in the Persian Gulf, and was lifted to us by
MSTS tankers and by commercial contract tankers.
Some aviation gasolines came from the west coast
U.S. and from Venezuela. And some motor fuel,
very, very little motor fuel came from the U.S. or
from Venezuela. All of that came from the Middle
East. And we operated, we rehabilitated and
operated about 20 million barrel capacity of
these underground facilities. There were
several terminals that we made no attempt to
rehabilitate them. Even though they had a little
dirty oil and tank bottoms in them, they could have
been rehabilitated very easily. And the job was
not just for the Army now. This was for all of our
forces. For all the U.S. forces, Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marine, the whole U.S. And also we
provided support when requested to other NATO
members, such as the British, any fleet units they
had operating in the area if they needed to have
some fuel out. So it was a joint operation and a
very, very extensive one. We pretty much, we ran
our own laboratories to test the quality control
on every tanker load and we did a lot of minor
research on some fuels. As a matter of fact, that's
where I became so enamored with The study of jet
fuel, turbine fuel, the aviation turbine fuel was
in Japan. I had a very fine laboratory on Tokyo Bay
that was staffed by a couple of former professors
of chemistry in the university and we ran And we got
so interested in turbine fuel and jet fuel that we
investigated several phenomena, one of them
being the growth of bacteria in jet fuel, which was
showing itself even in some aircraft tanks. This
bacteria grows at the interface between jet fuel
and water. and it was particularly growth, it
showed a particular growth when the jet fuel and
water had an interface in a concrete tank. There
was something in the concrete walls that seemed to
leach out and it was truly a bacteria growth. I know
the first time one of the Japanese chemists showed
me this beaker with jet fuel and water, this thing
that looked like the mother on a bottle of vinegar,
the thick scum that you often refer to a long time
ago as a mother in a bottle of vinegar. And then he
said he believed it was a living organism. And I
said, well, I don't believe it is an inorganic
fuel. So about two weeks later, he showed it to me
again, and it was about twice as big as it was. So I
said, I believe you're right, it is a living
organism. And we sent samples to the National
Bureau of Standards and several other
laboratories.
It had been known before and recognized, but
nobody really knew what to do about it. And some oil
companies got busy on it and developed an additive
to put in the fuel that would really prevent this
from happening. But I understand about a year or so
ago they had another outbreak of it. And it was
particularly prevalent in Southeast Asia and in
the South Pacific for some reason or another. But
anyway, these facilities out there were, it was a
very, very satisfying operation and It was about
1,500 miles from one end of my little command to the
other, the furthest terminal on Hokkaido to the
furthest terminal on Kyushu. And we helped to
design some underground tanks that the U.S. built
in Okinawa. We sort of patterned them after the
Japanese tanks. The Japanese showed great
ingenuity What they did, they built a standard
underground tank which was about 150 feet in
diameter and about 90 feet tall with the walls were
tapered. They were thickest at the bottom where
the greatest pressure would be because of the
standing column of liquid. And they tapered up to
where they were maybe four inches thick at the top.
And the way they did, rather than make an
excavation of 90-odd feet and cover it over,
they'd find a location near a port of discharge
that was kind of hilly with little hills and little
ravines. Then they'd build a tank down in the
ravine and then fill in around it, which was a
pretty ingenious thing. way to do it. I imagine it
saved a lot of time. And they built all this system
and from the middle to the late twenties and in the
thirties, early thirties, getting ready for the
eventual world war that they were going to wage in
all of Southeast Asia and the Pacific. Now how did
you get along with the people of Japan? Very, very
well. The people in Japan were, I think, easier to
work with and better to work with than the Germans
in the occupation period. The Japanese were more
subservient, is that the right word for it? And
they're certainly more courteous and more
cordial. You always had the feeling that maybe,
you know, they were real nice to you and everything
Maybe if you were sleeping with your back turned to
them, they might stick a knife in you, but I don't
really believe that. I got along very well with
them. And the
Japanese can be trusted. I don't think they can be
trusted as much as the Chinese. I think the Chinese
have a code of ethics and a code of conduct that's
stronger than the Japanese. But the Japanese, in
the true oriental tradition, respect, and you can
trust their respect because they would lose face
if you didn't. Now, when you were there, weren't we
starting to rebuild their armed forces? Oh, yes,
yes. The Japanese self-defense forces. Sure. We
worked very closely with them. In fact, we had some
joint maneuvers with them, joint petroleum
supply maneuvers with them. And I got very
friendly with several of the high-ranking
officers. When I left Japan, when I came back to the
States, they gave me a big party and came down to the
airport when we left and gave me a plaque of
appreciation and everything. I got along very,
very well with them. I've talked to other officers
who are in the Orient, especially Korea, and some
in Japan, and they said that there's always the
problem when you're dealing with the Orient of
bribes,
which they see more as a standard way to do
business. And of course, in America, we don't. Did
you ever have any Oh, very definitely. See, we had a
lot of contact with Japanese industry. I would
think so, especially in your position. Yeah. For
example, one real good one that I made a good
lasting friendship that even exists today was
with a Japanese contractor over there that
rehabilitated steel drums, you know, 55-gallon
steel drums, because we had mountains of them. all
sorts of things came to us in drums and they would be
issued out to the troops and everything and be
emptied and then we'd bring them back in because
they represented quite a monetary investment,
these 55-gallon steel drums. So we periodically
have to have these things rehabilitated, cleaned
out and repainted and new bums put in them and so
forth. And rather than have a facility to do this,
We did it on contract. And we had this Japanese
contractor in the Yokohama, Tokyo area that did a
very fine job and did it for a very, very good price.
And we put these out on competitive bid, and nine
times out of ten, he would get the business. His
name was Saito, S-A-I-T-O. I forget the name of his
company, but he was Saito himself. So we got
pretty, pretty well acquainted with him and he was
constantly
wanting to entertain us and wanting us to go to the
geisha houses with him and have dinner with him and
so forth. And, but one time I told him, I said, look,
no, and he couldn't speak any English, but he had a
pretty good interpreter. a right-handed man and a
gal that spoke good English that worked for him. I
said, I won't go to a geisha house with you for a big
evening of entertainment and dinner and so forth,
but if you and Mrs. Saito will take me and Mrs.
Kender down, we'll go with you if you'll make it a
family affair. So this was very strange, very
unusual because Japanese men don't take their
wives to a geisha house. And a geisha, a refined
geisha house is really not a whorehouse. The
geisha girls, some of them will engage in sexual
favors, but mostly a geisha house is a place where
you go and eat and the patrons are pampered and they
are entertained by the geisha girls. dances and
playing the samisans and all the instruments. So
he finally, they finally agreed that he and Mrs.
Saito and his daughter Sachi, they would go with
him and then we would bring, I'd bring my wife and
bring my
son. He was about 12 years old, I guess. Yeah.
Anyway. The daughter, the girl wasn't quite old
enough. So we did. Went to this swanky geisha house
in Tokyo. And I know the evening must have cost a
fortune. And Mrs. Saito threw her daughter Sachi,
who spoke a little, and she said that this is the
first time in all her life she'd ever been inside of
a geisha house. None of her Japanese lady friends
had ever been to a geisha house. Oh, they thought it
was wonderful. That gave her something to talk
about for months. Oh yeah, that was really
something. So we established a very good rapport
with the family of this contractor. When we got
ready to leave Japan and come back to the States,
they gave us a big going away party at their home. Oh
great. We went to their home. And just before we
were departing, he wanted to make a presento to me.
And he brought out a Canon camera with all the,
every kind of lens you can ever think for it. And I'm
sure it had a value of, oh, $1,500, $2,000,
something like that. Had the whole thing all
beautifully wrapped up. And I thanked him for it
and so forth. And then I told him that it's just
impossible that I can accept this because it's
forbidden even though it may be strange, sound
strange to him, it's just forbidden that we could
accept anything like this in my position. And he
was always just crestfallen. He said, well, can
your son, can we give it to your son? And I said, no,
that's just not possible. So the guy, his aide that
spoke to Ingrid said, well, could you just take it
overnight, and then tomorrow morning when they
meet you at the airport, give it back to me. And I
said, well, yes, we'll do this. So that it would
look like I had accepted it, and then I left it back
there with him. So we did that. And I would have
liked to have taken it, but I just couldn't do it.
Nobody would have known about it, I'm sure, but I
just couldn't do it. But there were a number of
examples like that. Oh, yeah, a number of them.
Were there? Oh, perfect. We've gotten, we stayed
in contact with the Saitos through the years, and
my wife and I went over to Tokyo two years ago, and
Mr. Saito is dead, and his wife is dead, but the
daughter is still there, and she's married one of
the leading movie stars, In Japan today. No
kidding. Yeah. And they came to the hotel. We
stayed at the Nuotani Hotel in Tokyo. And her
husband is a beautiful, good-looking guy. We had
seen his picture in a Japanese commercial on
television. They drove up to that one. We didn't
see him when they drove up, but we had dinner there,
luncheon on a Sunday. And then they wanted to take
us out to the Saito home, which they still have. And
he had a Corvette, American Corvette, which cost
in Tokyo probably about $50,000. And they drove us
out to their place and showed us a videotape of
their wedding. They had married about a year
before. And they plugged in the video in the Sony
and showed us a videotape of their wedding. And it
was quite a, and we corresponded with them since
then. And they're supposed to, last thing we
heard, they're supposed to come over to the
States. And we may go out to California and meet
them. But there was lots of examples like that. And
I personally know of a lot of guys that took things
from the Japanese. Not, I don't believe in the,
true sense of a bribe or what have you, but when it
comes right down to nuts and bolts, that's exactly
what it was, really. But that's a big thing in the
Far East, a very big thing. What does the military
have to say about it? Well, it's strictly
forbidden. It's strictly forbidden. It's
against all procurement regulations.
It's unethical and it's certainly illegal
partisan procurement regulations. And were
there any cases that came up during that time or any
examples that the military used? I believe there
was in connection with the exchange system, the
post-exchange system. I believe some civilian
employee buyers in the exchange system and maybe
an officer or two were tried by courts martial. I
believe they were, yeah. But no big deal. No
ranking person. I know of a pretty high ranking guy
in Tokyo that took a lot of favors from Japanese
that he shouldn't have taken. far beyond a casual
luncheon or something like that. I had a couple of
luncheons with Saito, but then other times I would
take him to the officer's club for lunch and pay for
it and so forth. And how did, how did that, what did
the military think when you took a contractor to
the officer's club? That was okay. That was okay,
yeah. Yeah, that's just, you know, just
professional in business courtesy. If he was
there during the time and you saw it feasible and he
was performing the service, for the military to
take him to the club, and of course you pay for it.
He's your guest, just like anybody would do, so
there was nothing wrong with that. Why did you
leave Japan? Your tour of duty was over? Yeah, tour
of duty was over. And you went to France now. I came
back to the States, came back to the States, and I
guess
I then went to headquarters third army in Fort
McPherson, Georgia.
And I was there in the southeastern part of the
United States and from there I was selected in a
very prestigious selection to go to the Harvard
Business School. I noticed that in 1959. Yeah, to
the Advanced Management program. And tell me
about earlier you, of course, had gone to the Army
War College, but most young men in their careers,
their ascension, go to the War College, but very
few ever go to the Harvard Business School. Yeah,
and it's still true today. selection the military
for since after the war the military and the
government have made a practice to our every class
of the advanced management program at the HBS The
Army sends two or three people. The Air Force sends
one or two. The Navy sends one or two, depending
upon budgetary situation. The CIA and the
Department of State and Department of Commerce,
Department of Interior, between those three or
four agencies, there are two or three go. So
they're about... four to six people from
government that are in each class of the Harvard
Business School. And how large are the classes
usually? The classes are about 200,
maybe 225. I think they're a little bit larger now.
And I was in the 36th AMP, Advanced Management
Program. And it has been looked upon since the war
that if you're selected to go to the Harvard
Business School, it's almost tantamount that
you're going to be selected to flag rank. In fact, I
think the records will show that less than 5% of the
people from military or government that go to the
Harvard Business School, it's a pretty expensive
thing for the government. Less than 5% have failed
to be promoted to flag rank. In my class, there was
only one guy from the military that didn't get flag
rank. He was a fellow from the Transportation
Corps. Very, very brilliant guy. But anyway, the
Harvard Business School, the military pays all
your tuition, which even then was quite
considerable, and now it's Well, I think it's
about $8,000, $9,000, $10,000 for this
five-month course. It's a five-month course,
and is it part of the MBA program there? Part of the
MBA program. You get a five-month capsule of the
two-year MBA program, really. I see. And they
really give it to you in a very concentrated form
and really a high-level form. But the military, of
course, paid my tuition, and they paid me the
normal per diem that I would make on temporary
duty, which at that time was $15 or $16 a day that
they paid us to pay for your meal and your hotel and
so forth. Well, that won't pay for anything.
Hardly, and wouldn't then, in those cases, pay for
your board and your meals at Harvard and
everything. So, it's traditional, and this has
never been written in a book or anything, but this
is traditional, and of course you find this out
from guys that have been there. People from the
military and from government are adopted by
people from industry when they go to the Harvard
Business School. In other words, in your class
will be vice presidents from Exxon and from
General Electric and people that are going to be
promoted when they come back to vice president or
something. And even some presidents of small
companies or executive vice presidents and so
forth. I didn't know anything about this adoption
per se when I went up there. So I went up there and
you're assigned to a group of men. A group of men are
assigned together to what they call a can group.
And a can group are the, I think it's six men that
live in six rooms. that used the same bathroom
facilities. They had one bathroom in this
dormitory set up like they had there then, where
these six bedrooms and study rooms used the same
bathroom. Very nice, the laboratories and
commodes and everything. Sufficient for six men.
There were two or three commodes and two or three
laboratories. I think there were four
laboratories. We never had any conflict in the
bathroom because it was so much, very, very nice,
which was between three rooms here, bathroom,
three rooms there on a floor, and then above you was
the same thing in a stairwell. So that was your can
group, C-A-N, can group, because you use the same
can. That's where it got its name. So I got
acquainted with my guys in the can group. One of my
guys... while I was there got polio, a very light
case of polio, and we all worked on him. I guess I did
more than anybody, massaging him and everything,
and of course the Harvard Medical School clinic
and everything administered to him, and he had a
remarkable recovery from this light case of
polio. Another guy in my can group is today the
chairman of Air Products Incorporated, and Hell
of a brilliant guy. Well, anyway, about the second
night I was there, well, I was sitting in my room,
and the other five guys came in my room. I didn't
know what the hell was going on.